JWT Scanner related Blog (#101)
zaproxy/zaproxy-website: site/content/blog/2020-09-03-zap-jwt-scanner/index.md

---
title: "ZAP JWT Support Add-on"
description: "How to scan and fuzz JWT's using OWASP ZAP"
images:

> - https://www.zaproxy.org/blog/2020-04-17-zap-jwt-scanner/images/jwt-options-panel.png

Reviewer: Needs update.

type: post
tags:
- blog
date: "2020-09-03"
addSocialPreview: true
authors:

>     - preetkaran20 (Karan Preet Singh Sasan)

Reviewer: Could be added to `/site/data/authors.yml` file.

Reviewer: This can be changed now to just `preetkaran20`.

---

> With the popularity of JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) there comes the need to secure their use so that they are not misused because of bad configuration, older libraries, or buggy implementations. So the JWT Support Add-on is used to find such vulnerabilities and this blog explains on how to use it.

Reviewer: `Add-on` → `add-on`

## Configuration

> As JWT add-on includes a rule for the Active Scanner and Fuzzer but there are configuration details which are specific for the JWT add-on

Reviewer: Add dot at the end? (The following line seems to be a new sentence.)

Under ZAP's Options dialog you will find a JWT section as shown below:
![JWT](./images/jwt-options-panel.png)
 
### Explanation

#### Scanner Configuration: 

In case the application which you are trying to scan is using RSA or more specifically RS* algorithm then please configure the public certificate TrustStore path and TrustStore password. These fields are used to find certain vulnerabilities related to RS* based JWTs.

Enable Client Configuration Scan flag is used to enable client side validations like JWT being sent to the browser in an insecure or non-recommended way.

#### Fuzzer Configuration:

As JWT is a signed token hence fuzzing field values require resigning the JWT and hence for signing fuzzer requires HMac secret key or RSA's private key as per the algorithm header field of JWT. So Fuzzer configurations corresponds to the same.

### Scanner Vulnerability Coverage
The JWT add-on's scan rule attempts to identified vulnerabilities in both Client/Browser and Server/Library implementations.

> For the Client side it covers most of the vulnerabilities mentioned in the [OWASP JWT CheatSheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/JSON_Web_Token_Cheat_Sheet_for_Java.html#token-storage-on-client-side).

Reviewer: Seems the link is now: `https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/JSON_Web_Token_for_Java_Cheat_Sheet.html#token-storage-on-client-side`

For Server side it mainly covers following vulnerabilities:

> 1. [None Algorithm attack](https://auth0.com/blog/critical-vulnerabilities-in-json-web-token-libraries/#Meet-the--None--Algorithm)

Reviewer: The anchors are no longer these.

Author: Anchor is not there ... not sure what to do ... i think we can let it be there.

Reviewer: Could you update the anchor of the following URL too?

---
title: "ZAP JWT Support Add-on"
description: "How to scan and fuzz JWT's using OWASP ZAP"
images:
- https://www.zaproxy.org/blog/2020-09-03-zap-jwt-scanner/images/jwt-options-panel.png
type: post
tags:
- blog
date: "2020-09-03"
addSocialPreview: true
authors:
    - preetkaran20
---

With the popularity of JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) there comes the need to secure their use so that they are not misused because of bad configuration, older libraries, or buggy implementations. So the JWT Support add-on is used to find such vulnerabilities and this blog explains on how to use it.

## Configuration

> As JWT add-on includes a rule for the Active Scanner and Fuzzer but there are configuration details which are specific for the JWT add-on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the JWT add-on includes a rule for the Active Scanner as well as Fuzzer functionality, there are configuration details which are specific for the JWT add-on.
```

Under ZAP's Options dialog you will find a JWT section as shown below:
![JWT](./images/jwt-options-panel.png)
 
### Explanation

#### Scanner Configuration: 

In case the application which you are trying to scan is using RSA or more specifically RS* algorithm then please configure the public certificate TrustStore path and TrustStore password. These fields are used to find certain vulnerabilities related to RS* based JWTs.

> Enable Client Configuration Scan flag is used to enable client side validations like JWT being sent to the browser in an insecure or non-recommended way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Enable Client Configuration Scan option is used to enable client side validations like JWT being sent to the browser in an insecure or non-recommended way.
```

> The Enable Client Configuration Scan option is used to enable client side validations like JWT being sent to the browser in an insecure or non-recommended way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Enable Client Configuration Scan option is used to enable client-side validations like JWT being sent to the browser in an insecure or non-recommended way.
```

#### Fuzzer Configuration:

> As JWT is a signed token hence fuzzing field values require resigning the JWT and hence for signing fuzzer requires HMac secret key or RSA's private key as per the algorithm header field of JWT. So Fuzzer configurations corresponds to the same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since JWT is a signed token; fuzzing field values requires resigning the JWT therefore the fuzzer requires an HMac secret key or RSA private key as per the algorithm header field of the JWT. So that the Fuzzer configuration corresponds to the same.
```

### Scanner Vulnerability Coverage
The JWT add-on's scan rule attempts to identified vulnerabilities in both Client/Browser and Server/Library implementations.

> For the Client side it covers most of the vulnerabilities mentioned in the [OWASP JWT CheatSheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/JSON_Web_Token_for_Java_Cheat_Sheet.html#token-storage-on-client-side).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the Client-side it covers most of the vulnerabilities mentioned in the [OWASP JWT CheatSheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/JSON_Web_Token_for_Java_Cheat_Sheet.html#token-storage-on-client-side).
```

> For Server side it mainly covers following vulnerabilities:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Server-side it mainly covers following vulnerabilities:
```

1. [None Algorithm attack](https://auth0.com/blog/critical-vulnerabilities-in-json-web-token-libraries/#Meet.the..None..Algorithm)
2. [Algorithm Confusion attack](https://auth0.com/blog/critical-vulnerabilities-in-json-web-token-libraries/#RSA-or-HMAC-)
3. [Trusting JWK provided with the Token](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-0114)
4. Empty JWT
5. Null Byte Injection attack

### Fuzzer View

> JWT fuzzer view is different from Http Fuzzer view as JWT's needs to be parsed and then JWT field values can be fuzzed so following is the Fuzzer view:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JWT Fuzzer view is different from HTTP Fuzzer view as JWT's need to be parsed, then JWT field values can be fuzzed. The following is the Fuzzer view:
```
